well welcome to welcome to the session
my name is ian ritchie i've had the
opportunity of managing part of the
quicktime engineering team this last
year Ashley for a number of years and we
decided to what we in fact something you
were here last year and we mentioned
that we're working on a new set of cocoa
classes for QuickTime and we listen to
your concerns we heard in s movie and in
its movie view had some issues you want
to just to take care of and said well
how are we going to do this because
we're quicktime engineers we know
quicktime inside and out we didn't know
a lot about cocoa so we actually the
whole team took coco classes and we met
with the coco development team holly
Ozorne andrew clatter and others and a
lot of direction from even executive
management on how to work on these
classes and we'll explain today what
we've come up with you're going to learn
about the new AP is that we offer Tim
Monroe will come up and talk about the
classes will show you some sample code
that we worked on we like what could you
get working on today you know just to
after a few minutes you have it on your
DVD and then we'll go into what if you
had a few days to work with this some
things we came up with these last few
days after we finished working on the
seed for your DVD that you have and then
we have a special guest at the end of
this so the old classes in this movie in
this movie view when we tried to use
these just like you real flash you ran
right into carbon you go oh no i've got
a idol of movie well i don't know about
that and what's a handle you know I
since Mac OS 9 most people don't know
these or are not used to using these
structures and data types so you ran
into limitations that we decided to
address and of course there were an
occasional buggers who than the old
classes so you've probably heard Apple
explain we're committed to Coco we want
you to use cocoa if you're going to
develop an application on OS 10 use
cocoa and they mean it we develop an
application on both OS 10 and Windows
the quicktime player and we are
committed to developing the quicktime
player for let's pan in cocoa explain in
a minute how we did that we developed a
QuickTime broadcaster a lot of the
ayats' that you see iphoto imovie other
apps we have an apple are using cocoa so
we encourage you all to embrace this
technology and Apple is committed to
providing access to other parts vos in
cocoa classes so we looked at it as a
cocoa programmer would we removed all
the carbon isms so you can get up and
get running in no time with your cocoa
background and this next well where
possible we adopted the cocoa model
there's a few places that will tell you
about that we made exceptions and we
also provided a new palette to Tim and
roll will go through in a little bit
that will show you the new functionality
so on the abstraction we have to deliver
quicktime virtually everywhere we have
ninety ninety-five percent of our users
are on Windows so when you're developing
an application we said well where do we
put the code where do we put most of it
push it down in a quick time as much as
possible and then above this we have two
layers we have an activex layer and we
have a cocoa layer and these one of the
layers here today that we're going to
talk about is the cocoa layer that's
what we built the player up on both for
windows and mac so your application
should be relatively quick time agnostic
and just use the classes and be able to
get up and running in no time I like to
introduce now I even wrote some of these
things down one of the Apple premieres
multimedia engineers this is all
imprinting look it up on the internet he
is the resonant quicktime guru in many
circles an author extraordinaire you've
seen many of his articles in
and he's also written the QuickTime
toolkit volume welcome to i encourage
you to run out and get this book let's
bring him up now here Tim enroll he's
also the tech lead of the QuickTime Coco
kid come on a family Thank You Ian what
I want to talk about here is briefly go
through the kit give you an overview of
what classes are in it and then I want
to do a real quick demo that shows how
to use the kid and then I want to get
out of the way so that the really fun
demos can come forward so there are five
classes in the QuickTime for Coco kit
and there are two data structures so let
me start down toward the bottom with the
data structures because we'll need those
when we get to the classes we are
providing a data structure called QT
time that is going to be our preferred
method for indicating a time or a
duration in a QuickTime movie and you
can see there is three fields here a
time value and the time value is
interpreted relative to the time scale
which is the number of time units per
second and finally we've added a flag
field here and this allows us to do some
interesting things like indicate that a
time that we're passing back to you is
not really a valid time or is perhaps an
indefinite time this might happen for
instance if you ask for the duration of
a streaming movie we don't it doesn't
really have a duration so we might pass
you back the flag that it's indefinite
you can see the QT time is indefinite
like they're so we have a bunch of
utilities for creating QT time
structures for adding them together for
comparing them we've tried to do
everything as much as possible in the
cocoa flavor and there are two
predefined QT time structures that
you'll be working with namely cutie zero
time which is a zero time or duration
with a non zero time scale and then the
Qt indefinite time which has that flag
that fits it and flag if you take two to
QT time structures try that fast and put
them together you have a cutie time
range and that indicates a start time of
the range and the duration of the range
and once again we have a number of
utility functions that you can use to
operate on time ranges for instance QT
time in time range will give you back up
boolean value and finally we have added
categories on the NS coder class that
allow you to encode or decode QT time
ranges and QT times trucks so when you
archive or on archive objects you can
add these items in so let's get to the
classes now the main class you want to
work with is QT movie this represents a
cutie movie and movie controller we
don't see any use in separating those
two items into separate classes there
are quite a number of ways to create a
cutie movie instance I've got some of
them listed here if you have a movie in
a file you can give us a file name if
you have a URL will take that if you
have what a cutie data reference which
I'll talk about in a second we can
initialize in QT movie objects from that
NS data or finally if you want to put a
QuickTime movie in your nib we also have
this method movie named which you may
recognize this similar to the image
named method for reading the movie out
of your nib file now so once you've got
a cutie movie object we have a large
number of methods that you can use to
navigate within the movie or to get
movie attributes let me just talk about
the attributes for a second there's a
few methods that will give you a
specific attribute directly for instance
the current time method will give you
back a cutie time structure which
represents the current time now we could
have defined methods for all the very
many attributes that you might want to
get but we haven't done that what we
will give you is an nsdictionary that
contains key value pairs of a large
number of keys and the associated values
if you just want one particular
attribute then there is a method movie
attribute for key so you can pass this
with a specific key and we'll give you
back the associated value so if you have
a movie you can also get an array of
tracks in that movie and finally if you
need to go underneath a kid if there's
something the QT kit doesn't do and you
really like work with models
karbonn ap is you can get the movie or
the movie controller identifier and use
that in your code the next class we're
talking about is cutie track as you know
QuickTime movie is composed of tracks so
we will give you back if you wanted a
list of tracks of QT track objects in
the movie now there's only one way for
you to create a cutie track object
yourself and that's if you already have
a QuickTime track we you can initialize
a cutie track object from that existing
quicktime track the way that you get and
set track attributes is exactly parallel
with the way that you do it with movie
attributes finally you can get the media
object that's associated with the track
and also in the case that you need to go
underneath the kit and work directly
with the QuickTime track you can get
that track identifier not much to say
about media each cutie track has one
media associated with it again if you
want to create a media there's only one
way to do that which is to start with an
existing quicktime media and called the
unit with quicktime media method media
attributes works just the same way as
movie and track attributes you can get
the track associated with the media and
finally if you need to go underneath the
kit you can get the media identifier
there's a cutie data reference class
which I don't want to say much about
because we'll talk about it a bit later
but the standard way of talking about of
referring to data in a movie is with a
data reference so we'll talk more about
this later and finally the the view
object that will be working with is QT
movie view it's a subclass of NS view
that is associated with a particular QT
movie object I've listed some of the
attributes that you can get in set we'll
look at this more in a second when we
get to interface builder and finally
there's a large number of IB actions
that you can wire up to menus or buttons
in your interface so that's really the
kit they have asked us to mention a few
issues that you will run into if you
start working with
version of the kit that's on your DVD
but I've listed three of them here there
are some cosmetic drawing issues that
you'll run into that you won't see here
today because we have a fixed version of
it currently you cannot usefully
subclass a cutie movie view and get the
event handling to work just right and
finally I would not recommend trying to
rotate a cutie movie view right now so
let's go to a demo with this and I'm
going to show you with six lines of code
just how easy it is to write a multi
document quicktime display and editing
application so let me launch Xcode here
and i'm going to ask for a new project
and I want a new project that is the
cocoa document based application let's
call this demo
don't tell me you're crashing there we
go i'm a pessimist let me open the dot H
file and I'm going to need one instance
variable here actually first I need to
do this when i'm using the kit i need to
of course no include cutie kitty h and
then i'm going to want to have one
instance variable here i want a cutie
come on movie view and let's call that
movie view what
now this will work so let's say that
that's all we need to add to my dot H
file let's go into the dot m file and so
I'm going to be loading windows from nib
files so I want to come down to the
window controller did load nib method
and add a few lines of code so in the
instance that I am loading a movie from
a file so if self file name is not nil I
want to do something and that is to
create a cutie movie and let's call that
movie and how am I going to create that
I'm going to call the class method cutie
movie movie from file and what's file
self file name and if I get a movie i'm
just being careful here I want to assign
that movie to the movie view which is
going to be loaded so I will say movie
view set movie to movie and I believe
I'm done with my code so let's save that
now I need to set a few things in my
target here first thing I want to do is
when I'm building oh goodness I don't
want to do the pre compile the prefix
header because that will take too long
and finally I want to set my document
type so that when the Open File dialog
comes up i can open MOV files and that's
all I need there I could add in other
document types here but i'll refrain
from that so let's see if i can build
this build succeeded most excellent but
I'm not quite done yet because I need to
set up my user interface
so let me open the document nib I'm
going to get rid of that text thing and
the first thing I want to do is resize
my window you'll notice that I didn't
put any code into my source file that
resizes the window to fit the movie so
I'm going to shut this i'm going to set
the size of the window to a known size
that will fit my movies ok and now i
want to drag a movie view object into my
window set it down here i want to set
its size to resize to fit the movie
window when I resize it and now let's
say a few attributes on the movie view
you can see I can show or hide the
control or I'll show it and I want to
make this editable and I need to do one
last thing I need to set up an outlet
for the file owner so I'll come in here
and add an outlet and we need to call
that movie view now let's come over here
and wire it up I will control click make
the connection save that and if the demo
gods are smiling on me i can go ahead
and run this and demo is running and
there isn't so let's now go over here to
the open file and open a movie file
after good thank you one thing you
cannot forget to do is add the QT cage
framework to your project or it will run
so we're going to go to system library
frameworks look down here for the Qt kit
framework add that to our project yes
now let's build and run and now things
are working fine so i can open let's
open that one but i tried to open before
movie from file ah thank you it's not
moving from file you think i know this
stuff now it's a movie width file okay
now that we've got that let's try
running this oh I'm still running it
there I look there we go now this should
work was cause our fingers open that
thing go we've got it this is actually a
flash file one thing let me show you
real quickly in the keynote on monday i
showed you that there's a contextual
menu for movies and if I control click
and this is a flash movie I actually get
items here that are relevant to flash so
I can zoom in zoom out and so forth
alright let me very briefly show you one
more thing and this is to show you that
the kit provides you a large number of
behaviors for free
ok so I've opened three movies here I
have to be our panoramas and let me line
this up just right so this is donner
lake in the winter and donner lake in
the summer and oh that's exciting so let
me try opening that again
alright so something is missing here
what I had was a wired sprite movie that
sent messages to the two panoramas to
tell them to pan so I can't do that here
because the movie isn't opening
correctly but that Illustrated one thing
that you get for free with the kit which
is automatic inner movie communication
so with that bumbling through let me
bring up Tom Maremma and he will discuss
what you can do hopefully with more
success if you've got an afternoon to
play with a kid all right where is the
clicker huh is it how do I go forward on
this I'm Tom Maremma I right technical
documentation for Apple I've been
working with a QuickTime team for the
last seven years and this is just
awesome stuff I decided to see what I
could cook up with the framework
basically in an afternoon whoops that
was too fast how about going back here
and I wanted to basically build a little
quick time kit media player app and
tiger something it was tasty easy to
cook up and wouldn't burn my fingers I
basically wanted to do us an app that
could play display QuickTime movies
import export and also do some editing
beyond simple cut copy and paste and
this would involve maybe a couple
hundred lines of code so what did I need
well first of all tiger cookbooks yes we
have some tiger cookbooks to do to work
with a QuickTime kit framework second
thing is sample code which you can
download which is piece of cake and then
some basic cocoa programming third thing
ingredients start with Xcode obviously
make sure Panthers or tiger is installed
and the key is add quicktime six dot six
and then we're going to bake it up with
the new classes when completed invite
friends over to watch and enjoy my
player up doing its thing finally all
the documentation the reference and the
programming guide is available plus the
sample code that i use to build this app
notice that we have not included
the 3300 pages that are part of the
procedural capi you won't need that nor
will you need the thousands of other
pages that we've written over the last
ten years documenting this awesome
quicktime technology so can I go to the
demo please whoops that's going I'm
going to just close think this is ten
stuff
we'll just do this around a little bit
this is my cutie kit player app and as
you can see i have added my cutie kit
framework which is Tim what what Tim was
showing this is basically an app that
we've cooked up in a couple of days and
what I want to show you is just a few
features that are unique to it I also
use the cutie kit palette and was able
to drag here's my my cutie movie view
and from here what I'm going to do is
show you what you can do as far as
adding some of the actions the as as you
can see I have specified my fill color
is blue Mike I'm showing my controller
and I'm not going to be showing the
editing cart yes my let me just go back
to this and I want to show you what I've
wired up here
hey this is the cool stuff that comes
with the kit as you can see i can add
add scaled in addition to the cut copy
and delete i can specify my actions to
go to the beginning to the end i can
replace it can start backward etc then
from here let me just pop open real
quickly thank you the main menu nib i
don't know if you guys can see this is
getting a little bit crowded here I
should probably and here I've added
importing plus and export view object
I've added some of my other menu items
and in my edit menu and also in my movie
so from there let me just close close
this down a little bit Alice ate
anything and now just close say anything
now here's where the here's the good
stuff in my declarations they're all
very straightforward I think this is
standard cocoa stuff you can see what
we're doing as far as the class methods
in its some of the setters this is
probably the most commonly used of our
methods in the Qt kit and down here here
all of our IV actions things get a
little bit more complicated in the
implementation file this puppy is a is
somewhat longer as you can see here I
have a pound to find that it specifies
the width of my movie at 320 this is
primarily to open up audio movies and
this code sample code is all available
for download and it's all documented
block by block the interesting parts i
think have to do with and I think Kevin
Calhoun will talk a little bit more
about some of the issues involving
sizing and and
here we're we're opening up our document
with the contents of the file and this
is partly where we're going to be doing
some of our importing the beauty of
working with the Cutie kid I think is
that that it doesn't take a lot of code
and it really it really dances for you
so I'm going to just quickly build and
run this puppy and there's my cutie kid
player app as you can see this is the
default now here's where it gets a
little bit interesting I can basically
import and I have control
well if we get some sound we have sound
we have sound on this issue ok the next
item that I want to import for you guys
is my mpeg-4 file now here we've got we
got some control of our movie playback
hopefully you don't have to flip with
cockroaches like that
and guess what we've added we have
picked capability which I don't have
time to demo now of additional editing
functions that add as skilled
replacement trim we can toggle the
controller and if we want we can even
clone it there we are okay things get
pretty hot we can in vian even import
JPEGs still images and my favorite
import item being a guy who does
documentation I decided to actually
import a PDF of the documentation which
for you guys and it has a scroller down
here for if you guys can read it 30
frames a second there you are okay happy
cooking so the document is available
that you just saw now since you read it
so quickly you don't need to pick it up
off of your seed but for others at the
conference you might point out to them
that the QuickTime kit reference for
objective-c and the QuickTime kid
programming guide are available I am
Kevin Calhoun i'm still a software
engineer at apple computer and i'm going
to talk to you about some more advanced
scenarios once you get involved
programming with the QT kit you are
going to have needs that go beyond the
things that you can do in a morning or
an afternoon you might have to work into
the evening these are the nighttime
topics let me go through them one at a
time for you as Tom mentioned there will
be some code that's necessary if you
want when you load you when your windows
nib is loaded if you want the size of
you or size the entire window to fit the
natural size of a movie we've always
made this easy for you it's possible by
means of one of the methods that Tim
mentioned earlier the Qt movie movie
attribute method to find out what the
natural size of the movie
then you can use that size to set the
size of your view or your window
accordingly you can check whether the
movie is displaying the movie controller
and adding the size of the movie
controller as it is and that code in
fact code that looks exactly like this
is in Toms sample application which we
were distributed to you so you can see
it in action Tom's of application you
call that the Qt kit player is capable
of opening any of the media formats that
quicktime is capable of opening and it
does this merely by calling the method
QT movie movie with file that's all you
have to do and you can open mpeg-4 all
the still image formats that QuickTime
supports avi a whole range of formats
even QuickTime movie files but you might
want to tell NS panel in its open panel
when you bring it up that you want it
actually to make all of those different
file types selectable there are two ways
to do that this is one of them here you
can use the class method on QT movie can
in it with file in order to determine
whether a file should be selectable in
NS open panel you do it just like this
you set yourself as a delegate for the
panel and you handle the method panel
should show file name and you can
respond should I show this file by
calling Canon it would file the other
thing that you can do is you can
actually get from QT movie there's a
class method that will return an array
of all of the file types that QuickTime
can open if that's what you need to do
it's really a trade-off if you have a
small number of files you might want to
pass them for a filter like this if you
have a wide range of file types it might
be more efficient for you actually get
that whole array okay other topics we
showed you opening movies from files we
mentioned that you can open movies from
URLs well what happens if you have media
data stored in an instance of NS data
I've got Anna status inning around and
I've got a VI in it or I've got mpeg-4
in it I want to make a cutie movie out
of that well that's very very easy
there's a class method on QT movie movie
with data but I wanted to show you
just a little under the hood what that
method actually does it initializes and
it well it creates an instance of QT
data reference that essentially refers
to your NS data as the source of the
media that the movie will be able to
play and manipulate when you do this
it's very handy if you give QuickTime a
clue about the format of the data in
your instance of NS data there are two
forms of clue that we're able to read
one is a file name with a path extension
if it's if it ends in dot mov or mp4
that's a good clue about the format of
the data that's in the NS data or you
can give us a mime type and that will
help us determine how to import that
data in your NS data then you can
manipulate media data in instances
vanness data using the very same methods
that you saw demonstrated and use with
files ok that's media data coming into
the kit what about going out you have a
lot of options for storing your movies
in files and for re-encoding your movies
into other forms of media option one you
can simply write your movie out to a
QuickTime movie file a file which only
stores a reference to the media data
which is stored externally that's easily
accomplished via the Qt movie instance
method right to file with attributes the
second option is perhaps you want to
save your movie after you've performed
all the manipulations on it that you
want to perform out to a QuickTime movie
file but you want to store a complete
copy of all the media that that movie
requires that's easily accomplished by
means of the Qt moves movie method right
to file with attributes I've achieved a
theme for my talk I'm satisfied I can
move on but in this case you have to put
in that nsdictionary that you pass for
with attributes some information that
tells the Qt kit that you want to
flatten you want to copy all the media
data to the output movie file so that's
what this code accomplishes of course if
what you want to do is to store your
your model by means of an S archiver you
can use that with QT movie instances as
out you can archive the movie as part of
your whole object hierarchy finally the
last option is you can just get in an
instance of NS data the serialized
freeze dried form of a QuickTime movie
using the method movie format
representation once you have that you
can store it anywhere you like an
instant savannahs data which you can
write to a file or do whatever you need
to do it finally if what you want to do
is not store your movie but re-encode it
or export it or somehow turn the media
that that movie plays are represents
into another format how do you do that
well you can simply use the method right
to file with attributes some of the
attributes that we support tell us what
kind of container format do you want to
store it in other words what quicktime
movie exporter do you want to process
the media and store it in that container
format you can tell us you want ABI you
can tell us you want aiff what have you
and furthermore you can tell us what
compression settings that you want to
apply to the audio and the video as your
media is recompressed and stored in that
container format now this particular
snippet of code the longest one that
I'll show you today shows you that you
can load some presets from a plist that
you store inside of your application
bundle that ink that contain those those
export settings that i mentioned well
the question is where do you get those
export settings from that you might want
to store and peel it well I wrote a
little sample app that does exactly what
you would need to do so let me come on
over to the demo machine if a
left-handed demo machine today and I
wrote a very simple application that
brett really does one thing only it
manages a list of export settings and it
saves them to a p list of exactly the
form that i mentioned in that code
snippet here this is a very simple coco
app all that it does is show you an
array of export settings such as high
quality or digital video and for each of
these priests
so I want to use in my application I can
edit those export presets let's see I
want high quality to use the video
compressor oh let's see what do I want
to use I what do you want to use Michael
pick slit and I want that to be high
quality and I like 30 frames per second
and i want my sound to be stored as
apple lossless at 48 kilohertz because i
know that's the audio format that i'm
going to be working with and I'm not
interested in preparing for internet
streaming because i'm just using this in
my production pipeline but if i'm
delivering the cd-rom perhaps i want a
different set of settings i may want to
encode my video to mpeg-4 with medium
quality and I want my audio in this
particular case to go to mpeg-4 audio
AAC looks good and so all I'm doing in
this application is editing and saving
these presets I set my high quality beat
Apple pick slip video and apple lossless
audio and I set my cd-rom a preset to be
mpeg-4 video and mpeg-4 audio now I can
save this collection of presets to a
document i'm going to say these are my
export settings and i'm going to store
them out on the desktop and what I
actually save in this application is a
plist and inside of that P list which
has the file type if only you could see
the file type dot export settings it's a
simple p list that contains those export
settings that i can load in my
application later on and apply to an
export operation this is sample code
that will distribute to you if you want
to implement something for example like
iMovie I can come back over to slides
please if you have something like I
movie that has a panel that says export
to web export to cd-rom this is exactly
how you can implement that in your own
Apple
patience finally my last scenario has
interest when you're dealing with media
the interesting thing about media is
that it can come from any places and
have a variety of characteristics one
characteristic is that it can be slow it
can be coming from remotely over a
network or it can be a media format that
quicktime supports that might take us a
while to scan in order to apply all
these great features for it for example
if it's primarily a streaming format but
you want to do editing on it quicktime
might have to do a little bit of work to
prepare it for that what you need to do
in your applications is to check the
load state of QT movies to determine
whether or not they're ready for the
operation that you want to perform check
to see if the load state is complete
before you perform editing or saving
operations we're making it easy for you
by giving you the movie attribute the QT
movie load state that you can check for
this and our own operations for example
if you call right to file with
attributes to do export will do the
checking for you but it's something to
be aware of okay so those are my
higher-level scenarios of interests I'm
going to turn the stage over to Adrienne
bear locker who's going to show you some
of the cool things that he built I'm not
sure if you did it in the middle night
or when but he'll tell you so can we
switch to the demo machine please I'm
going to show a couple of very simple
demos using QT kit in tiger
so the first demo I have is a movie
screen saver so Tiger OSN has a screen
saver framework for writing your own
screen savers and you basically just
returned a screen saver view so in this
case we want to use a cutie movie view
so we programmatically we can create a
cutie movie view and add it as a subview
to our screen saver view and in this
case we've set some attributes of the
view to to hide the controller and
preserve the aspect ratio so this is
this is a very this is only about 200
lines of code or so most of this
actually involves like setting up
there's some a configuration sheet in
this case the only other thing i want to
show here was the only up so we also we
observe a notification there's about 16
different notifications on QT movie and
in this case we we observe the QT movie
did and notification so that we can know
when the movie finishes and go on to the
next one so what most these
notifications are useful if you if you
want to customize your user interface
you see a little preview like other
screen savers and this is just picking
up movies in the feed from the movies
folder and we can select which ones we
want to put in here and loop them or
mute them and picking crush test
and as we go on to the next movie beep
this one would finish so it's a really
simple example the other example I have
here is of a movie plug in New in Safari
the thing in serene in tiger WebKit has
exposed the cocoa plug-in API and it's
actually very easy to write your own
plugins for WebKit and so we just
there's a message you you provide a
class method plugin view with arguments
and we get a dictionary this is just a
dictionary of the attributes you get in
the ambit from the embed tag in HTML and
so I use those two to initialize our QT
movie view subclass plug-in movie view
and also create the movie and set that
on the view and so the subclass in this
case also so this is a plug-in protocol
so in this case we return self the
plug-in movie view itself to form the
object for the web Script object so it's
also very easy to add JavaScript support
and you just need to implement these two
methods is selector excluded from web
script and web script name for selector
and this is just mapping the cocoa
selectors to the javascript function
names themselves you see I have like
play stops stepping and go to end and
full screen and most of these just
mapped to QT movie view so i just
actually just called super for these
except for full screen but it's actually
very easy to do full screen in in cocoa
i mean we just we can just create a
window set the level to around
screensaver level set the background
color and add our QT movie view to the
windows content view so let's just run
this
so not the greatest you I but all of
these buttons these are all plugins
they're coming to me visit we can we do
so little empathy we need the quick and
we can step and I'm sure you can think
of much more interesting things to do so
these are just a couple of very simple
examples of what you can do using QT kit
I'm sure you guys can come up with much
more interesting things thanks so we're
here huh well you've seen a few other
things we've done recently with the
cocoa classes in quick time you've been
to some of the other quicktime sessions
i hope and it's not a lot of new
exciting technology is in this next
version of quicktime and the cocoa
developers that in vase the kit the
quicktime kit will get a lot of these
technologies for free we're going to
continue to develop the classes going
forward and there's a lot of
functionality now that's in the kit
today so adopt them put them in your app
and we'll do the hard work and the heavy
lifting for you you have the rest of the
QuickTime team behind you okay thanks
for coming that's our show oh wait one
more thing oh there was one man that is
more responsible for what we've
accomplished here the instigator I guess
be the man behind the throne that and
also our number one QA person because
from early days he was encouraging the
QuickTime team and Apple to get behind
the cocoa effort and has adopted the
kits from early on and helped with the
design and guideline
and I'm very proud to have him here and
you're in for a treat is dr. Michael
Johnson of Pixar let's bring him up well
thank you you know that was way too nice
now I owe him money again um well yeah
so just to start off on a group called
mpg every year I come i'm in a different
group so eventually they're going to get
rid of me but they haven't yet so people
are asking what MPG was it's actually
the moving pictures group but you know
the various jokes or your mileage may
vary we move the pictures so you don't
have to there's no experts here or the
expert is silent and other people at
pixar think of us as the media pipeline
group and and really we're the people
who are responsible for a chunk of in
the studio tools group the apt
technology and workflow for kind of what
i think of is film development and
that's really kind of development it
sort of trying to come up with the movie
the story department get a tutorial
department the layout departments and
these are the groups that really deal
with is a film as a large-scale entity
and a lot of the other groups at pixar
on the production pipeline are dealing
with a shot or a model and and and so we
actually deal with sore larger chunks
and so one app that some of you may have
seen that we wrote back about three
years ago is this thing called pitch
doctor which we use in the in the story
department and another one which some of
you have also seen is the thing we call
review sketch which lets our directors
actually draw on top of any of the
footage that they're seeing in the
screening rooms and for the last year so
we've been working on this thing we were
calling the was still are calling the
film online kit and it's a it really
would not have been possible without
this effort by all these amazing
engineers in the quicktime group and it
was something that I wanted to do
because in you know a couple years ago
my view quicktime was a quick time it's
too big it's hard it scruffty and it's
fragile in the sense that I had to know
to call this and then that and then have
this thing initialized or whatever and
you know quick times api's they make me
tired and and if you're a cocoa program
actually that's so let's take a live a
here how many of you would consider
yourself coco programmers who want to
learn something about quicktime today
interesting how many of you would
consider yourselves you know quicktime
people they're sort of old-school
carving people and you're trying to
learn more about cocoa this time okay
yeah it's about the mix I figured so but
see that's the thing is like for those
of you you know the second group there I
really really really really want what
quicktime can do for me like you know I
I don't want to do this stuff myself and
you know because my group of pics are we
know we're pretty small group relatively
speaking and we're all about leverage
and quicktime is all about leverage and
so I had an idea so so now here it is a
you know from 2002 than a year on I had
a different view because they'd come to
me and I said you know we're working on
that thing and want to do it and like
what do you need out of this thing
because here's what we're doing and so I
said you know well actually pretty
simple needs you know quicktime is this
enormous enormous thing so i want you
know a model level class 4a for a
QuickTime movie it's pretty
straightforward teams I want a really
nice view level class for a QuickTime
movie and so what do I mean by nice well
the first obvious thing is maintain the
aspect ratio that drives me nuts your
work on a film like you know you can't
know that's I got the bars don't mess
with ya
and so and then this was the thing that
I think I think may have thrown them a
little bit for a loop but I also think
that it's kind of the obvious thing and
I don't know if this is from because I
work at a place like Pixar where we make
cartoons or if it's because I'm a cocoa
guy but I wanted to easily and quickly
make movies of movies and there's a
bunch other stuff I want it as well but
but the sort of movies of movies who say
what it what would this be and so this
was actually one of the things that
fundamentally appealed to me about
quicktime was that if you looked at any
of these other media formats and I don't
even know what that means but but ways
that you could imagine storing
synchronized audio and video you know
way back when I was a place called the
Media Lab at MIT a long time ago and you
know we would did stuff early on with
quicktime and remember very early on
hearing somebody talking about the fact
that you could make a movie that had
other movies in it and I was like well
of course that's the obvious right thing
and and so that's always always stuck in
my head and so for us you know what that
means is you know when I think of a
movie I literally think of a movie that
we're working on that's X 1 2 & 3 a
given act has a bunch of sequences in it
a sequence has a bunch of shots a shot
has a bunch of frames and then those
frames I'll have you know some set of
layers on there so place i went to the
ian and kevin actually and said this is
sort of what i wanted in Kevin god bless
him I gave me like a bunch of code that
I did not understand and it did exactly
what i wanted and every time i would say
you know i would send him to man i would
say Kevin um you know you old-school
carboni quicktime guy um you know what I
really wanted was I wanted to be able to
do this thing with this in and out point
he's like yeah Michael it's in the code
just just use the code that I gave you
and so you know but it was a lot of code
and so I got confused easily so
eventually I finally learned enough
about
quicktime to be able to ask the right
questions and figure out how to actually
implement this stuff myself in the kit
and i like to think that those
discussions had some influence on the
api to make the kinds of things that I
wanted to do much simpler for you guys
now one of the things that that will
sort of come up in this is you know is
this stuff fast enough and I sort of
have measures of of what's fast enough
and so for me it does it get me the
leverage I need and it absolutely does
and and it's always you know it's the
old one it is it's magic because if this
stuff works at all to me I just remember
a line from Alan Kay back a long time
ago and he was had some harsh words for
the Macintosh and somebody was like you
know why you harsh it on the mac he said
oh well it was the first personal
computer you know worth insulting and
and so this is like so I feel like
what's with the kit it's like i finally
met the point now where I can have a
conversation about quicktime and
actually you know say something give
some useful critical feedback because
because now it's finally good enough in
the sense of like that i can actually do
something real with it so this is i'm
going to toss this up and I'm going to
talk about a little bit now and then i'm
going to give a bunch of random demos
but this is this is pretty much the code
that's like at the core little thing
that I asked Kevin for a while ago and
the idea was here is I have a little
thing in my film online kit the fol kit
there's a little thing called fol
element and an fo element basically just
has a movie and it has an in an out
point it has some other little bits and
pieces of information there but the idea
was is you have an fol element then you
have an fol sequence and that would be a
subclass off of it so an fol sequence
was an ordered list of fol elements and
the idea there was so you could have
movies of movies of movies I didn't want
to just have it be I wanted to be as
thin as possible layer on top of the kit
but I wanted it to be a layer I didn't
want to just you know try and convince
Apple to basically you know write it for
me I've done that before and I think you
guys have that codec and and so so this
is all it really came down to and what's
cool
about this is that you can do the whole
thing with QT time which is a wonderful
wonderful little struct and again sort
of goes back to sort of the core getting
it right with quicktime thing the fact
the QuickTime has always thought about
time correctly and they always thought
about it as you know a value with
reference to a scale you know to just
you know Jim that's off and and so
what's going on here is basically I'm
grabbing the movie out of out of this
sequence that I'm in and and I'm
grabbing the movie that I want to stick
in there and I find the I find the time
that I want to move the thing into there
and then I call this method this insert
segment of movie time range at time and
and magic happens so some other things
to think about and I'm gonna give you a
bunch of demos here but I want to kind
of put a bunch of ideas in your head
when you get your hands on this stuff
one of the cool ones is we worked with
the the final cut folks to come up with
I mean they did all the heavy lifting we
gave them one good idea on this XML
format I've got the Earl here I went and
checked that last night to make sure
that was that was a live link there and
it's a great file format and what's cool
about this is especially if you're like
me and you're building things on top of
the QuickTime kit and the in QuickTime
is great file format don't get me wrong
but there's a lot of times you're going
to want stuff to basically be editable
somewhere else especially if you're like
me and you've got you know you own a
teeny part of a very large production
pipeline and you need to have things
flow around there this XML format is
really great for that and in our kit we
actually support we can read and write
it and so that means you can sort of put
these things together and then you can
save them out and just double click open
them up and final cut and it just works
another thing that I've been sort of
thinking about as I've been here I mean
the command line apses is a big thing
also for us and with cool about the kit
is so again I've been trying to learn
quick time for years okay failing
miserably for the most part until this
stuff came along and one of the things
that sort of always comes up is people
wanting to make reference movies right
you've got like these five movies and
you'd like to make a move
there's my movies with movies game again
but you know and I guess there's I guess
there's this guy Peter hottie and he
wrote this thing a million years ago and
people all go and get this you know it's
over hero runs and classic and you know
there's there's some little thing for
doing this stuff and I'm sure all the
QuickTime gurus are going well no
Michael you just do this but but as far
as I could ever tell you know it's just
sort of black magic and you can write
this in like three lines now with the
kit that's just so killer you know you
can basically open up a movie do you
know insert movie of movie into that
movie as you iterate over your movies
and then save the thing out again and
now you know you can even transcode it
to a different codec if you want amazing
and then also I was just thinking when i
went to the automator talk the other day
about the fact that you know if you
think about these things little command
line apps you can imagine doing all
sorts of really neat things with
QuickTime movies so anyway the other
thing that you may want to do is you may
want to put whatever stuff you do on the
kit on an ib palette and that's what we
did so so we have this idea of what we
call a sequence provider and a sequence
provider is basically a model object
that is holding on to its basically
fronting for one of these sequences it's
basically providing that thing for you
to a model controller layer and we have
a set of formal protocols that these
sequence providers can form to so there
is the notion of an fol sequence
providing there's an fol mutable
sequence provide a providing an fol
beautiful movie sequence providing we're
way to protocol E and so we've actually
implemented this for two things one of
them is actually a very lightweight
thing you know think of like iTunes
except think of it for movies and so
you'd like to basically have huge lists
of movies big cut list of movies but you
really don't need to play them you know
you're really just kind of organizing
them it'd be like bringing up iTunes
where you're getting ready for a party
and you know all this music you don't
need to actually play it you just kind
of want to rearrange it and put it in a
particular order the next one is an
actual hardcore editable playable movie
sequence something where you can hit
spacebar and it's just going to play
play for you and so so we implemented
these two things as serve objects on the
pallet there so with that
go to bring up I be everybody has to
arrange their little I be world
differently myself included oh yeah hmm
right all right so just start off with a
simple thing no document opening error
occurred well that's good we should have
rebooted this this machine all right
we'll make a new one see I tried all my
stuff on Panther and then they put me on
a tiger machine so the the basic idea
here is here's here's our little palette
here we have a whole bunch of different
objects a bunch of which you're not
going to see today sorry so so the first
thing we want to do is you want to
actually drag out this little object
that has a bunch of movies in it and
because we are very firm believers in
the sort of iterate really quick kind of
thing we actually have I can go and I
can add and delete movies to this thing
here which I will later on this but it
comes up and it starts up having just a
bunch of movies to a bunch of tests
movies sort of built in there to provide
out so the first thing you want to do is
you know pretty much what everybody else
has been doing here which is you drag
out a little you drag out a little movie
view and in my case I actually wire it
up to a sequence provider so now if i go
into test interface mode i actually go
and build up a little sequence of those
movies there and so I just have this
simple little movie that's there now
that's not super interesting it's sort
of what the other guys were doing and I
must be the sexy demo so I have to do
something better than that so one of the
things that is really really neat about
this and the things thing that they got
really right is the fact that this is
very you know and again happy that most
of you raise your hands on the cocoa
side of the fence there is that this is
you know the QuickTime kit makes it very
very easy to make very
NBC kinds of things and so you know here
we have old table which is representing
the movie and as we're playing this
thing here you know it sort of showing
up that stuff there and we can do all
the sorts of things you would expect I
can drag and drop these things around
now what's going on here I'm editing a
movie okay I'm editing a movie of movies
here and it starts to get really
interesting of where it's actually just
updating this stuff so we'll put some
more yeah see I know why those guys
don't want to open that's weird anyway
we'll go and instead of having a just a
table view we can use a an outline view
and so you can notice now that when we
get with some of these things there were
little disclosure triangles on them and
that's because these themselves are
movies of movies of movies so in our
little test thing that we've got there
we actually have it set up so that it's
not only to sort of one level of
hierarchy but it's too and in all the
sort of stuff that you expect to have
work works you know you can serve drag
between them and stuff like that and
we're doing you know we're doing some
heavy lifting there but the fundamental
quicktime activities going on there is
that little function that I put it there
which is basically all I'm doing is I'm
inserting element I've got sort of a
companion one of that which is basically
delete element from segments and these
guys really did it right it's really
sort of works the way you would expect
it to work and again we've got with the
kit that we've been working on we have a
whole sort of raft of these these UI
elements so let's just go and see if we
go and we said let's put that in a tab
view where do I put on shampoo
something's been puttin up to have you
so let's put this guy in a tab view
there and then we can actually go and we
have another another view which is a
tableau view and so if we wire that guy
out to sorry I'm try going to scroll
view and this guy will go and let's
actually also drag a little slider so
we'll do the sort of iphoto kind of
thing so we can see our our movie that
we have here as both as but looking at
it that way or this way and again sort
of all the same kinds of things we can
go and move these things around and and
then we can go and I should have made it
continuous that's what you want to use I
be so now when you go in there you can
try that sort of stuff now i really want
to sort of take this moment here since
you're since your cocoa folks here to
evangelize a few things people i came
from the old nextstep world that's sort
of how i got to cocoa and one thing that
used to happen a lot more in the in the
next step world and it seems to be
happening in the cocoa world is people
would put things on pallets and and it
makes me sad that i don't see more IV
pallets and i pushed really hard on the
QuickTime kick guys to get sort of all
their ducks in a row on there so in
terms of you know the all the encoding
methods and things like that are in
there so that you can actually go and
put all this stuff in there put it in a
nib and there's a certain rigor that
that happens when you actually go to the
trouble of putting things on an IV
pallet and there's a certain cost up
front in terms of actually making it so
that all your objects know how to
serialize themselves out and that
they're using key coding you know
correctly and and there's you know
there's some work you have to do there
but it's really worth it because there's
nothing like you know taking out another
app to to know when you've got bugs in
your code and the cool thing about ib is
you know I'm you know in a test
interface mode there if I'm not
releasing everything correctly or I'm
doing some bad trouncing on things there
I'm going to pay for it really quickly
and I much prefer to sort of take the
pain of that kind of stuff not quite
completely upfront but you know people
don't sort of go and finish things out
well enough i think in it it kind of
makes me sad so i'm hoping people will
see you know this thing as a kind of a
non-trivial example that was basically
done by there's like you know for people
that contributed to the code on this
thing here so it's not a huge wasn't a
huge huge effort but but it is something
that you want now take out against or
there's the obvious thing then that if
you're going to really start trying to
do Production apps with this stuff the
one thing that I think you know we all
know that we need is a timeline and so
we have a little Timeline view that we
can drag out here and eventually start
up there so here we have a little time
line and same sort of stuff happens you
know you've got selection you can see it
happening between them there we've got
interactive we can serve change the in
and out points on there and then
indicate those things and and what
here's sort of a neat thing so remember
this is a movie of movies inside our
movie right so and remember that that
little movie had if we look it had it
was made up of three and four but it's a
movie and it has in and out points so
theoretically we could actually change
the end points of that thing and move it
in far enough that that it's sort of
representative first frame is no longer
three but four and so that sort of just
proving that I sort of have no you know
I'm not lying here another thing that
you could do on this kind of stuff is
you can use sort of non-trivial movies
so let's actually get rid of my trivial
movies and show you some non-trivial
once
now unfortunately when I grabbed these
movies I grabbed them off the disc farm
and we made them from there and so these
movies have no sound but but they are
real movies nonetheless and so this is
some stuff from a little movie we're
working on this year called The
Incredibles and and so this was from the
trailer and so this is pretty
interesting because these are the real
are we we're in a bad place right now
let me just check this again sorry I'm
going to quit I be for a second here and
do this again because some things say
they're being freed in the middle there
you probably want to start again okay so
if we drag out a little movie view here
and we drag out a timeline and then we
pull out a sequence provider and then
we'll go and we'll edit that sequence
provider in order to add those movies
and again
and so that you know what I'm hoping
that that you're you're getting from
this is the fact that you can you can
use this kit to do real things you know
these guys have done there's still I
think I think there's still lots of
there's lots of quick time left that's
not really exposed in in the kit right
now but I think there is an enormous
amount of work that these folks have
done so here's our little sequence here
and what's fun with this is that you
know you can even actually edit this
thing you know while it's playing this
is what i mean by it's magic I didn't do
anything to get that you know domain
like I'm just like editing the movies of
movies there and these quick time folks
are just making that all work and and I
don't really know you know sort of what
they're doing and I don't have to know
that's the point of doing stuff with
cocoa right leverage it's all about
leverage and trying to get and trying to
and to leverage what what these folks
are doing so you can get back and do
sort of the real work that you want to
do is that the time for talk or do we
need to leave time for questions for
talk okay good it's that Professor okay
I'll wrap this up here so that's its
kind of dark up there that's too bad
this is this is actually full film res
pic slit playing back there and and we
can also there's other things in the kit
that I sort of haven't talked about but
I can do things like we have this notion
of markers that you can drop down and
you can drop markers on things and and
snaps into things or we can put a I
could put like a marker here and then I
can extend that thing out and and then I
can do things like drawing on top of it
there and then I can actually go and
just play and like the drawing there is
actually using a child window so there's
actually this is again it's sort of the
magic of cocoa right is I've got the
child window stuff over here so i did
that drawing in a separate window that's
coming in
cutie movie view that has no knowledge
of that stuff at all the GPU is doing
the compositing there so i didn't have
to like you know draw some sketch track
inside of quicktime and then hope the
quicktime you know it was a fast path in
quick time to sort of composite that
stuff together you know I can sort of
have that little drawing up there and
this is the kind of stuff that we do all
the time and have it not cost me
anything from quicktime and what's so
great about this from again from a coco
person's perspective is the quick times
finally sort of you know arrived in you
know to my party where you know they
were having a great party over there by
themselves here but now like I get to
use them and I get to make them plug and
play with all the things you know
interface builder and child windows
stuff and and just being able to build a
framework and to be able to sort of move
things around really easily and that's
just that's just enormous and sort of
what you know these folks have actually
accomplished you know sitting on the
shoulders of the Giants of all the
QuickTime efforts for the last ten years
you know I just you know I'm the Klimt
it's just really huge and so that's
that's all I've got thanks
you